{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs28\lang9 General AWS Basics\par
Q1: What is AWS?\par
\tab A: AWS (Amazon Web Services) is a cloud platform offering compute power, storage, and services like databases, networking, machine learning, and more.\par
Q2: Explain the difference between public cloud, private cloud, and hybrid cloud.\par
\tab 1. Public Cloud: Services offered over the internet to multiple clients.\par
\tab 2. Private Cloud: Used by a single organization with dedicated resources.\par
\tab 3. Hybrid Cloud: A combination of both public and private environments.\par
Q3: What are Availability Zones and Regions in AWS?\par
\tab Regions are geographical areas (like us-east-1, ap-south-1).\par
\tab Availability Zones (AZs) are isolated data centers within each region.\par
Q4: What is an EC2 instance? How do you launch one?\par
\tab EC2 is a virtual server in the cloud. You can launch one via the AWS Console or CLI by selecting an AMI, instance type, key pair, and security group.\par
Q5: What is the difference between AMI and EC2?\par
\tab AMI (Amazon Machine Image) is a template for EC2. EC2 is the actual running instance created using an AMI.\par
Q6: What is an Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)?\par
\tab ELB distributes incoming traffic across multiple EC2 instances to ensure high availability and fault tolerance.\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  EC2 and Compute Services:\par
Q1: What are the different EC2 instance types?\par
\tab General Purpose (t2, t3), Compute Optimized (c5), Memory Optimized (r5), Storage Optimized (i3), GPU Instances (p3).\par
Q2: How do you connect to an EC2 instance?\par
\tab Using SSH: ssh -i key.pem ec2-user@public-ip\par
Q3: What is a Key Pair in AWS? Why is it important?\par
\tab Key Pairs are used for secure access to EC2. You keep the private key, and AWS stores the public key.\par
Q4: What is the difference between stop and terminate in EC2?\par
\tab Stop halts the instance without deleting it. Terminate deletes the instance and its associated storage.\par
Q5: What are user data scripts?\par
\tab These are initialization scripts that run once at EC2 boot time (e.g., install Apache, update packages).\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  Storage: S3, EBS, EFS\par
Q1: What is Amazon S3? What are its storage classes?\par
\tab S3 is object storage. Classes: Standard, Intelligent-Tiering, One Zone-IA, Glacier, Deep Archive.\par
Q2: How do you make an S3 bucket public?\par
\tab Disable \ldblquote Block Public Access\rdblquote  and use a bucket policy or object ACL.\par
Q3: Difference between S3 and EBS?\\\par
\tab S3: Object-based, used for files.\par
\tab EBS: Block-based, attached to EC2 for OS/data storage.\par
Q4: How do you backup an EC2 instance?\par
\tab By creating an AMI or EBS snapshot.\par
Q5: What is S3 Versioning and Lifecycle Policy?\par
\tab Versioning saves multiple versions of files.\par
\tab Lifecycle Policy automates transitions (e.g., move to Glacier) or deletions.\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  Networking: VPC, Subnets, Security Groups\par
Q1: What is a VPC in AWS?\par
\tab Virtual Private Cloud allows you to create isolated networks within AWS.\par
Q2: Difference between Security Groups and NACLs?\par
\tab Security Groups: Stateful, at instance level.\par
\tab NACLs: Stateless, at subnet level.\par
Q3: What is a Public Subnet vs Private Subnet?\par
\tab Public: Route to Internet Gateway.\par
\tab Private: No direct internet access.\par
Q4: What is an Internet Gateway?\par
\tab It allows communication between instances in a VPC and the internet.\par
Q5: What is an Elastic IP?\par
\tab A static public IP that you can assign to an EC2 instance.\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  IAM (Identity and Access Management):\par
Q1: What is IAM?\par
\tab IAM controls who can do what in your AWS account.\par
Q2: Difference between IAM Users, Roles, and Policies?\par
\tab Users: Individual identities.\par
\tab Roles: Temporary permissions for services or users.\par
\tab Policies: JSON permission documents.\par
Q3: How do you give S3 read-only access to a user?\par
\tab Attach the managed policy AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess to the user.\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  Monitoring & Management\par
Q1: What is CloudWatch?\par
\tab Monitoring service for AWS resources and applications.\par
Q2: What EC2 metrics can CloudWatch monitor?\par
\tab CPUUtilization, Disk I/O, Network I/O, Status Checks.\par
Q3: What is CloudTrail? How is it different from CloudWatch?\par
\tab CloudTrail records API calls.\par
\tab CloudWatch monitors performance metrics and sends alerts.\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  Scenario-Based Questions\par
Q1: How to host a static website on AWS?\par
\tab Use S3 with static website hosting enabled.\par
Q2:EC2 not reachable \f2\endash  what will you check?\par
\f0\lang16393\tab\f2\lang9 Security Groups and NACL\par
\f0\lang16393\tab\f2\lang9 Public IP\par
\f0\lang16393\tab\f2\lang9 Key Pair\par
\f0\lang16393\tab\f2\lang9 System Logs and Instance Health Checks\par
\f1\u-10179?\u-8903?\f0  Behavioral / Academic\f2\par
Q1: Why do you want to work in cloud computing?\par
A:\par
Cloud is the future, offering scalability, learning, innovation, and global job opportunities.\par
Q2: Have you done any AWS projects?\par
A:\par
Yes, example: website hosting on S3, EC2 app deployment, S3 + IAM access control.\f0\par
\par
\fs22\par
}



What is AWS?
What is PRIVATE,PUBLIC AND HYBRID CLOUD
WHAT IS IAAS,PAAS,SAAS
What is Ec2
What is s3
What is VPC
What is IAM


